Port Scanning
Port scanning is the process of inspecting
TCP or UDP ports on a remote machine
with the intention of detecting what
services are running on the target,
and what potential attack
vectors may exist.
Using a proper port scanning methodology
can significantly improve our
efficiency as penetration testers
while also limiting many of the risks.
Depending on the scope of the engagement,
instead of running a full port scan
against the target network,
we can start by only scanning
for ports 80 and 443.
With a list of possible web servers,
we can run a full port scan against
these servers in the background
while performing other enumeration.
Once the full port scan is complete,
we can further narrow our scans
to probe for more and more information
with each subsequent scan.
The results of one scan determine the
type and scope of the next scan.